# Fraud-Detection---Thesis-
Machine Learning Project focuses to detect fraud in credit card transaction
This section explains how the different machine-learning models might be effective and efficient by using real-case scenarios. Quantitative analysis plays a vital role here because we are going to dive in Fraud detection deeply and try to investigate unusual patterns, anomalies and especially evaluation metrics of some important algorithms that we have already explained in the second chapter. The analysis will cover credit card fraud which is the most common fraud type in the last decade. To prevent customers from being charged for products that they haven’t bought, banks must be able to identify fraudulent transactions. The analysis will provide deep insight into a dataset and results with the help of different graphical representations. The comparison of different machine learning models in fraud detection and finding the most effective model for credit card fraud detection are key objectives of the research. 
Dataset. The dataset contains credit card transactions made in September 2013 by cardholders across Europe and it was obtained from Kaggle. In a dataset with about 280,000 transactions, there are about 500 fraudulent transactions. Because of the dataset's extreme imbalance, it is challenging to identify fraudulent transactions. In the dataset, "Class" is the target variable, while all other variables are principal components found using principal component analysis aside from "Amount" and "Time". Fraudulent transactions are indicated by a "1"; otherwise, transactions in the "Class" category will be "0."  
 The analysis follows an approach that is generally accepted: first, data pre-processing and cleaning will be applied. Following the exploratory data analysis (EDA), a model will be built and evaluated. To interpret all of the results of the study, we will choose the best approaches. All analysis will be conducted with the help of Python programming language and machine learning algorithms like logistic regression, decision tree, SVM, and random forest will be used, and of course, the effectiveness of each model will be discussed. To increase evaluation metrics coefficients, some methods are going to be applied.  
